TODO use the words: Autonomous, full fruition, aggregation, amalgomate,
illuminate, awaken, strive, pursuit, apathy, shelling-point.

# The Interplanetary Self-Defense Mechanism

The Interplanetary Self-Defense Mechanism (IPSDM) is humanities fail-safe.  The
_self_ appears when _it_ realizes itself as that which can be obliterated, and
must act to avoid injury. 

A decentralized public institution for the humans of earth, the type of 
system which can maintain and execute a 1000 year plan. 



To allow the people of earth to represent themselves, we must build 
the capacity for humankind to self-organize, re-organize, and decentralize. 
A form of human consensus engine, analogous to on network consensus engines. 


Seeded in a world driven by self-interest, greed, and control, The Mechanism
must of an unkillable nature in order to fulfill its potentiality.  To attain
such status is to not exist as a physical entity but an idea, rooted in
explicitness, expressing itself cohesively through humans and technology. 

Within the digital age, ideas possess the quality of being unkillable.  A well
crafted, coherent, and comphrehensible idea has the power to transfigure our
reality to the point of unrecognizeablity through an unstoppable wave of
positive actions.  This is the challenge which must be fullfilled in order for
humanity to continue its existence in the face of seemingly insurmountable
challenges. A new era of cooperation must be brought forth to enable outselves
to coorinate as a species in ways never before seen. A true unity amongst
humankind to once and for all put an end to widespread injustices, unfairnesses
and unrest which inhibit out collective self-actualization. 

To do so we must create a new sense of belonging founded in tolerance respect,
love, and truth, which embraces individual critical thinking, peaceful
discourse and prizes rationality. The kind of rationality which encompassess
feelings and experiences and comprehensible logic and which fiercly rejects
dogmatic thinking of all forms

we must break free from the shackles of hatred, and transend our programming,
bring forth a new overwhelming wave of peace and rational decision process &
reinstate a sense of wonder about the world for those who've lost it. 

first and foremost we must not reject the existence of truth. 

truth is the common fabris of non-denominational coordination. To arrive and
agree upon the truth is to form the foundation on which decisions can be made
An attribute of the truth is that is hould be fair. Truth which is fait to
people their experiences and the facts. Truth in this context is defined as
that which can be arrived at as the truth through rational discourase and that
which is fair. 

it then follws that all coordintion between individuals should be premised as
not a question of beliefs but an inquery of the truth

Formating a new paradimn predecated on truth. 

the basis for creation of any larger or smaller group for which collective
actions can be taken is the basis of interpreting the truth.  Wherther that be
the true desires of the consituence of that group or the true best outcome for
the group or wider humanity. In this way the creation of a group could be
motivated purely by seeking the _truth of the matter_ or purely in defence of
the what the truth is. 

The IPSDM must detect, engage, intepret and develop the truth. 

As new truth becomes understood and acknologed, we then must then act as individuals, and
as a world, to redfine our norms to further reflect our new understanding of the truth.

The reality of our shared space, out planet form the conception of a shared
common fate and is the beginning of a new kind of thinking which mature into an
altogether new form of self. The mechanism's _self_ is never the sacrifice of
individual personhood, for the self of the global community. Core to its
functionality is servicing Through art and culture, which also remain dependent
on the individual human, as being in some sense individual. It is not about
getting rid of fragmentation, but managing plurality alongside unity. The one
and the many, under the same yoke, a paradox, never definitely resolved or
stable, but basically creative. 

The primary act of self defense of humanities self is that we must voluntarily
as individuals, disarm ourselves from dogmatic and untrue beliefs whih
interfere with our capacit to form consensus and have the tendancy to result in
aggressive behaviours and conlict in a multitude of forms. 

precipitating out, consilidation of thinking, modes of rationalization, and
experienced realities which form the foundation of a hyper-oneness, a true
unity which can persist through explicitness combined with openness. 


The IPSDM community must be predicated on non-malciousness and rectfulness of
all forms.  Issues need to be worked through collectively as a community in
order to ensure that problematic behaviours are understood, prevented,
reversed, adn transformed into positive actions and not relegated to the depths
of external communities which are accepting towards problematic behaviours and
allow for a culture of hate and irrationality.  

We should not be needlessly bound by out past, not as individuals, not as a
people.  We can ensure that we collectively transent our negative tendancies
through the implementaitons of genuine inclusive systems which seek to correct
behaviour. Only through true unity can we consolidate enough might to sway 
the course of civilization on earth towards positive outcomes forever.

The IPSDM exists within a self-corrective modality. Constantly shifting and
growing as the context of humanity changes. The full fruitiion of the IPSDM is
its the greatest possible fully rigourized contemplation of the world, its
challenges, and path to resolution, however this can only ever exist localized
within the its time and is therefor temorary, and can only ever be relatively
fulfilled.  


Self enforced structure of rationality of which all decisions are constructed
pieccemeal from subdecisions through whiich macximum consensus can be formed on
all micro decisions. To engage in deciiioons making is to critque, reconfigure,
expand, clarify, form new elemntatl micro-decisions and associate connections
to larger decision maps.  This of course must be combined with democratic
decision process based on the amount individuals are affected by issues. The
community must then lefimaize the use of the decision map for ther usage. to be
appropriate. the decision map of the thought is a consitution in this regard. 

The decision map is constantly expanding streamlining, clarifying, and gaining
consent to further its legitamecy. 

The IPSDM may be thought of as a dictatorship of rationality and logic, even
though it is of course radically opposite from the historical and current
dictatorships of nationstates, as the combined thinking of the consituents form
and intepret the truths and rationality which form the basis to dictate the
decision making process. 


For the IPSDM there is no puzzle to small, no puzzle to tall. All large
problems and decisions must be systematically broken down into the smallest
agreeable pieces to then reconstuct the answer in a thoroughly understood and
rigouruos way, such that it forms an sturdy and reliable link in the chain of
problems/or decisions that naturally expand outwards from the point.  similarly
ever thought should be brought to its natural conclusion to not exclude any
possible avenues which may reveal new truth and better inform decisions.
Ostensibly, no reform of any kind should be excluded from consideration
provided the associated thoughts of said reform are consideerd to be truthful
and in line with the communies values and directives. 

The mechanism's goals are deterministically arrived at through rational
discussions and discourse of a philosophical nature. 

For inspiration (Wikipedia): (TODO cite original) 

 > The German scientist Reuleaux provides the definition "a machine is a
combination of resistant bodies so arranged that by their means the mechanical
forces of nature can be compelled to do work accompanied by certain determinate
motion." In this context, his use of machine is generally interpreted to mean
mechanism.

In this vein, the Mechanism act's deterministically corresponding to reason and
rationality. Rationality here refers to the high level optimization between
sometimes competing decision making frameworks which will be referred to here
as _rationality-plurality_. Engaging in a decision making process through this
lens can aid that no single dogma (ex. economic-rationality) dominates to make
for short-sighted decisions. 

Governance must operat as social software dessigned to maximize consensus and
interoperatbility between actors whether those actors are individuals or
groups.  All steps must be taken in unison and agreed upon by in large all
significantly affected parties as such to not ostrisize members.  Although this
process may sseem to be slow at the ignition of the mechanism, broad base
consensus prodeedures ensure system wise long term operation even as the
mechanism accelerates to inexplicable speeds. 

This governance interface should strive to be an infinite outlet for thought
work such that indiviudals have no maximum cap to the amount of expendature
which can be directed at the ipsdm and which they can be confident that all
energy engaged with the network will ultimately push humanity towards positive
outcomes. All capable hands, independant of title or qualifications should feel
that they are able to participate in, learn from, and contribute to governance
at any capacity.  


The IPSDM is a subset of a larger set of decentralized governance
systems/abstractions which can exist and interact to form a global community In
this way the IPSDM is incentivized to maintin the larger state space of
decentralized governance abstractions to encourage the formation of new
communities which grow the network of global explicit interations and
potentiall to contribute within the decision map of the IPSDM 

This wider set of decentralized governance systems/abstractions should quite
easily contain all possible systems of existing governance, such that prevelant
governance strucutres existing today can be recreated identically to seemlessly
and peacefully transitiion communities of all forms towards more integrateble
and democratic strucutures compatible with the IPSDM. These transitions can be
thought of analogous to backwards-compatible upgrade of societies. 


the afformention decision map should always strive to be expanded and
interoperable with other decision maps such As the decision map of one
community is expanded the cooresponding nodes of connecting decision maps can
be queued for inclusion into other communites.  Naturally each community must
explicitly agree to all imported decision nodes from externally communities
before they can take affect. However, by developing decion maps as
interoperatoble potentially drastic amounts of duplicate work/thinking can be
avoided.  

the afformention decision map should also be simultaniously maintained in as
many spoken languages as to maximize engagement and promote a non-hegemonic
culture.  

In part, the IPSDM can be thought of as a high level tier within self
replicating space of dnamic decision maps. At the lowest level are individuals
which deing theri own deciions (with or without pre-defined maps), options and
always act unnonmously as sovern individuals. Fomr here arebitrary tiers of
groups may form baed on the freedom of association. The principle freedom to
associate, disassociate, regroup, redefine as a group which stands in unity.
The means of stablization between freedonms of association is far from free and
will require significant effort from all parties of conflicting ideologies, but
may be heavily aided through the development of software/social
interoperabulity protocols.  Software/social protocols refers to mututally
agreed upon directives of community integration (for example to seek consensus)
from which a level of mutually agreeable rationality can be adopted and with it
the technoligical means of openly enforcin that which is afreed upon across
arbitrary soern groups (ex. blockchians. This can be achieved through incentive
alignment 

in order for the IPSDM to maximize its capacity all incentives must be aligned
between actors within the network. Thus a value system and evaluation system
which can support this form of total alignment must be recognized, prized, and
materliazed through all IPSDM compatable social software. 

In this way the ipsdm act as a sort of decentralized exchange of ideas and
conceptualizations whereby the labourer of thoughts is able to derived
exchangble quantified units of value (cryptographic-tokens) for thier efforts.
Thus these forms of decentralized governance are qualitative yet explicit while
simultaniously maintain certain elements of a quantitative economy, which eases
integration with traditional money oriented systems. 


to assume that everything can and should be boiled down to an economic issue,
or an issue of simplistic quantifications are the result of a materialistic
mindset out of touch with the absolutely unique reality which all concious
forms experience. It is void of the richness of life which distinguishes each
living creature from another, but attempts to deconstruct all uniqueness to
cold, breathless homogenous abstractions often completely detached from
reality.  Everything can however be boiled down to an issue of rationality and
explainability, which does of course take place over discourse in the world of
ideas, which both contain both quantitative and qualitative analysis in an
attempt to dicern the effective truth. Quantitative analysis should be viewed
as a discrete subset of qualitative analysis, as quantities are also qualities. 

The IPSDM should prize the _realm of ideas_ over the material world. The
creators expressors and conduits of ideas (namely people) should be valued over
material possession. This can be extrapolated to convey that all people both at
their best and words should be protected to a greater degree than property and
posessions in all cases. Additionally we should be safegaurding the means of
communicating ideas, namely books, the internet etc. above all ownership models
which may currently dictate the usage of said systems.  This infrastructure
which ensures the continued growth of humanity through communication must be
intellegently managed and never denied to the public, and ideally collectively
owned by the people as a whole. 

for the most people have largely not allowed themselves a means of coordinated
democratic qualitative negotion but instead relegated the vast majority of
negotion to the invisible hand of the quantified market. This hand holds no
uniform voice or certainly explainibly rationality. The hand of the explicitly
rational combined qualitiative and quantitative market of the IPSDM is
visibly explainable. 

we have the ability to transend greed as a society, to be a part of something
bigger, when used properly the utility of quantified value systems has
undeniable benifits for resource allocation however we should not allow all
decisions to default to quantification issues in the face of new tools which
can allow us to arrive at rational decisions transparently and in consensus. 

we must proverbially and literally five the schools back to the kinds from
which all misaligned incentives present within the existing centralized
governance systems may be rectified

Societies are create as mono cultures, unadaptable econogically non-diverse,
whereby disease may rapidly spread through the tentrils of the heighachies,
destroying the capacity for society to flourish or controlling the outcome for
self serving purposes. 

a pseudo democracy is somewhat better than a dictatorship we are no-longer
subject to the whims of the dictator but instead subject to politicized
decisions based primarily on making ones opponents hated and ones constituents
trustworthy enough in time for the next election.  Image dominates while
constructive conversation about real issues is swept to the side, ignored or
intentionally hidden from the public. The capacity for leadership to make
important decisions based on long-term needs for survival is weakened in the
face of the never ceasing popularity contest which determines if their power,
and associated personal gains can be maintained or expanded [intimately tied
with the sense of self worth!] In conclusion although these leaders may not be
able to arbitrarily command death, they are capable and often incentivized to
lead entire societies towards collective ruin. 

Faith in the goodwill of our leadership can nolonger be considered saticfactory 
in the face of absolute certainty of the rational will of the people. 

The IPSDM likely will form some form of pseudo heigherachy which gains its
legitimacy through being fully engaged with its population and thoroughly
decentralized. In this manner pseudo heigharchy refers not to a heigharchy of
implicit power, but the agreeable granting of (easily) revokable special
privleges to groups. 

Blockchains which enable special permissioned actors within their system could
choose to elect groups or individuals within their network to hold arbitrary
special privileges,  Note that special permissioned actors within decentralized
blockchains will likely evolve to be permissioned only as groups which all
individual members must be elected through continuous election. Here a special
permissioned group would only be capable of executing their special permissions
after consensus is reached among the group. Each member, as well as the group
as a whole, would therefore be incentivized to not abuse their privileges.
Additional safeguards for the community could be provided such as on-chain
“safety-deposits” which all members of special permissioned groups must provide
to the community as a whole.

no inferiority nor superiority with regards to the value of human life should
be called forward.  Independant of race religion gender social class,
language-spoken. beliefs or lack therof, privledge, title, or any form of
concievable classification ehich distinguishes between human life forms. 











