# General 






The Interplanetary Self-Defense Mechanism (IPSDM) is humanities fail-safe.The
_Mechanism_'s mode's of operation include: 
 - Crisis 
 - Prevention 
 - Peace-Time 

Based on the mode of operation, The Mechanism will prioritize technological
development and mobilization based on the specific needs of humanity. 

The mechanism's goals are deterministically arrived at through rational
discussions and discourse of a philosophical nature. 

For inspiration (Wikipedia): 

 > The German scientist Reuleaux[2] provides the definition "a machine is a
combination of resistant bodies so arranged that by their means the mechanical
forces of nature can be compelled to do work accompanied by certain determinate
motion."[3] In this context, his use of machine is generally interpreted to
mean mechanism.

In this vein, the Mechanism act's deterministically corresponding to reason and
rationality. It takes heed to humanity and is: 
 - self-driven
 - self-sustaining
 - autonomous 


TO WORK IN the idea of "rationality-plurality" rational on many forms beyond
"economic-rationality", optimization between rational frameworks through
discussion 


From Nate to work in: 

Yeah something like that Self-defence mechanism sort of says it all, the self
appears when it realizes itself as that which can be obliterated, and  must be
defended Part of the problem for me is always how to not sacrifice the
individuality we know, individual personhood, for the self of the global
community The individual who cuts his arm off to survive seems not to be the
kind of individual the global self could be, at least I think thereâ€™s some
ethics difficulties that arise for the global self I think that perhaps the
idea of a shared common fate is the beginning of a different kind of thinking
Which might mature into an altogether different kind of self Through art and
culture, which also remain dependant on the individual human, as being in some
sense individual Its not about getting rid of fragmentation, but managing
plurality alongside unity The one and the many, under the same yoke, a paradox,
never definitely resolved or stable, but basically creative




# Framework 

A network of physical communities are the basis 


# Maintenance 

The mechanism is self-maintaining. 

# Automoony 

TODO: we should probably have a section discussing the autonomous and sustainable elements of the mechanism
